I say Kevin main the focus why studio
here delighted to be joined by Timothy a
happy to you
we're really pleased that you've joined
us here the CEO social capital and the
recently fairly recently installed
chairman of Virgin Galactic
so I kind of wanted to talk to you about
a number of things and was split it into
two parts one is with your new hat on
and once with the other hat on okay so
and I mean Virgin Galactic as a as a
brand and a concept that you've been
around for a while I remember seeing one
of their other former executives many
many years ago talking about the
concepts and there was a loss of okay
that's really cool but it felt like it
was always going to be such a long way
away and they've had a few ups and downs
some some unfortunate ones and things
but you're there now just give us
initially to mother your kind of
umbrella view of where that business is
and the technology and the opportunity
first of all place well I think the
opportunity is one that sort of is at
the intersection of a bunch of very
important trends that are happening in
society as we speak so I think that the
commercialization of space travel and
the ability to do space tourism was a
phenomenon that I think many people
thought would be real but many decades
out well it's been many decades since
they said that and so I think the time
is now and over the next 20 or 30 years
I think you're going to see a lot of
incredible companies push the envelope
on exploration and privatize what has
historically been a business that's been
run by governments and as we do that I
think what you're going to have is the
creation of a completely new type of
luxury experience and market and in that
I think that there's going to be a lot
of opportunities up and down the stack
from the technology that's used to build
these machines that are capable of
sending people safely into space and
back all the way through to the travel
and the accommodations and the
experience is not just for the people
that are in space
frankly for the friends and loved ones
of the people on the ground watching and
so that entire ecosystem is going to
develop out of nothing so part of my
interest was piqued by that which is you
know sort of in this social media world
that we live in that values experience
more than anything else you know
it is probably undebatable II the most
unique experience in the world you'd me
be surprised to know that in the
totality of humankind meaning everyone
that's ever lived or are living of which
they're about a hundred billion of us
562 people have gone to space yeah and
so I think that it's a moment whose time
has come and when you think of all of
these trends there's just going to be a
lot of curiosity that's peaked and
you'll be able to satisfy that curiosity
and actually buy a ticket and experience
something that frankly basically
virtually nobody has ever to them it's
what Virgin Galactic is going planning
to do is its travel or is it tourism
well I think it starts at the
intersection of both okay and the reason
I say that is that the experience is
crafted in a way where when you buy a
ticket and it's your time to fly you and
your whole family will come to our
spaceport in New Mexico and it's an
entire week-long experience and it's
programmed around becoming an astronaut
and it's run by the person who was in
charge of astronaut training for NASA
and so in that respect it's very much
tourism and there will be overtime
luxury experiences you know more
affordable experiences experiences for
your children experiences for your
family and friends experiences for you
fine dining you know all of those things
that you would expect for something like
this but then there's clearly also a
travel component which is that you are
training to enter space yes and which is
no small undertaking this you know it's
no small undertaking from a technology
perspective as it turns out for the
individual itself you know the the
Bini has designed a product that is
accessible to basically virtually any
human being from you know sort of 18 to
80 and we only say 18 because you know
there's a legal requirement to be 18 but
the point is that in the absence of a
meaningful health condition you know
your ability to tolerate the g-forces
that are that are required to send you
up to space typically exists within most
humans right okay and would it also be a
logical step for it to become a
transportation brand as well in fact in
terms of it's not just sending people up
displacement it's also sending them
incredibly quickly to Sydney from London
in fact so if I take my hat off as an
engineer and put my hat on as the
investor what I'll tell you is that in
order to build something that can send
people to space and back what you are
really doing is validating a bunch of
very difficult technical concepts and
you know when we start commercial
operations we will be the only company
in the world who will be flying paid
passengers at hypersonic speeds now when
you think back to the last company that
tried to do it supersonically
it was the concorde you know that flight
profile was nominally very similar to a
traditional air it operated roughly in
the same altitude it only would go
supersonic so supersonic means just
slightly above Mach 1
hypersonic means anything three and a
half or greater
it would only do that over the oceans
because of all of the sonic boom and
whatnot but this is a product that could
theoretically ferry passengers across
any two points in the world at roughly
you know less than one twentieth oh
sorry one-fifth of the time of a
traditional airplane so if you think of
a Los Angeles to Shanghai flight which
is typically twelve hours or you know
Los Angeles the Hong Kong 13 hours it
becomes under two hours yeah and I think
when you think about that world
and again that world will be five to ten
years away but it's not fifty years away
but in that world what happens is you
completely start to reevaluate the whole
concept of travel and leisure you know
you would never think we're in Miami
right now you would never think that you
could go to Hong Kong for the weekend
yeah or you would never think that you
know if you were in you know San
Francisco that you could go to London
for the weekend but if you could get
there in 90 minutes it's no different
sometimes than driving from one tip of
San Francisco to the other in traffic
from honey and so that's completely
transformational to the world of travel
and tourism and transportation do you
think it has or potentially will have
almost a kind of an image issue because
you know it's been leveled before that
it is essentially a rich person's kind
of plaything it's ultra ultra luxury in
terms of costs and things like that
is there something that you feel that
you would need to get over to make it
more I don't know something to people to
aspire to almost because it is expensive
to do it's incredibly expensive to do it
is required you know more than a billion
dollars of invested capital and 17 years
of time so it's not only expensive to do
it takes an incredibly long amount of
time to do it safely
yeah now contrast that though that
billion dollars with what NASA has spent
so NASA in 60 years to send 500 people
to space have roughly spent almost 600
billion dollars so about a billion
dollars per person now we are able to
get that cost down into the hundreds of
thousands per person I think it stands
to reason that over the next 10 or 15
your years our goal should be to get the
cost into the tens of thousands and
naturally what will happen is it will
unlock markets and make it much more
accessible yeah I mean if you asked
Richard or myself I don't think the goal
is to sit there and charge hundreds of
thousands a ticket over time the goal is
to democratize the opportunity for many
people to travel this way but it is just
important to realize that it's an
incredibly complicated expensive
time-consuming effort and so we start
small in a market that we know exists
and prove quality and prove value and
then slowly and methodically work our
way to broaden the market and technology
companies have done that quite well you
know and when you invent things for the
first time you really need a group of
ardent believers to support you
right no need champions
you know Tesla is a very good example
which when it started it was selling a
very expensive roadster now 17 years on
its able to sell a $30,000 car that's
driving the electrification and you know
pioneering our perspective on climate
change and carbon emissions for autos
you know well that took some time but
they did the right thing yeah and they
moved down the cost curve and as shall
we when we have the opportunity
society's not known for its patience
though I think that's perhaps the issue
isn't it we had to wait 17 years for
Tesla and things like that I don't know
I would I would I would push back only
because I think that Tesla has you know
basically seen a 50 four-fold increase
in the value of their business yeah
and so I think it is the opposite I
think when people see real value real
technical differentiation and product
differentiation they're exceeding the
patient yeah
okay so thanks on Virgin Galactic let's
move to the other side of things say and
correct me if I'm wrong you've been you
know fairly outspoken about conscious
bias which is something that we learn
and in venture capital and funding I
mean how serious a problem does that
remain because there has been some sense
of change in the last couple of years
because of you know certain issues in
the media and things like that and do
you think we can you pretty much can't
banish the brogrammer culture which I
think you know travels had some fairly
high-profile issues around those I think
we have to take a step back and and ask
ourselves what is the goal mm-hmm I
think the goal of technology should be
to democratize opportunity and what that
means to me is that anybody anywhere
should be able to step in and
build something that is incrementally
better than something before it without
a lot of impediments in their way that
are artificial the impediments in their
way should be their intellect
should be product quality should be
customer love should be NPS all the
typical things that go into you know
finding a legion of customers who
believe in you and love you what
probably is not necessary we would all
agree is that if in order to build a
superior product what you need to do is
mimic and look like the person that
controls the money to give it to you
that's an unnecessary tax that society
pays to frankly be better and we live in
a world today where you can effectively
abstract away those biases how would you
do it well you know you brought up
travel when you look at sort of the
travel industry in large part why travel
has been such a leader in its ability to
transform itself online is because it
operates in a world where for example a
lot of value can be gotten from a
company like Google you know and we can
all debate Google bad or good for travel
but the point is that you know Google is
need-blind and if you have a better
product and if you have a superior
mechanism of engaging with customers
they'll allow you to get your product in
front of those customers now over time
they take attacks and the tax goes up
and profitability too crazy but you
would say that a lot of those people
probably would not have been business
people entrepreneurs had they been
forced to go through the traditional
funnel of standing in line in a venture
capital firm asking for money and so
travel is a great example of what can
happen in its early days when you have
more meritocracy now can and should they
get better of course we all need to but
there are many many other categories of
innovation that have not actually
advanced nearly as much or there are
these little cabal's of folks who can
dominate and pioneer things that touch
all of us whether you see it feel it and
touch it or not and I
I've been a big believer that the best
thing that I can do to become great at
my craft is work on my inherent bias
okay and try to be able to close my eyes
and not require this person to mimic or
look like Who I am or what I'm used to
and instead ask the core questions that
get down to will this person be able to
build customer love and NPS and product
market and what you find is that person
comes in an incredibly diverse set of
costumes and so you know being a really
good investor is really about being able
to take off the superficial labels that
they bring to a meeting and seeing
what's underneath it's really hard it is
really hot yeah indeed so you've also
said and debt-laden companies could be
you know a trigger for and that kind of
a financial problem Travel is again has
many companies that are saddled with
lots of debt I mean give this to your
kind of perspective on on how that I
mean it's it's difficult so well I think
the world
moves in pendulums and you know our
attention spans are the shortest they've
ever been because of social media and
the like and so we forget the historical
context in which we live and the reality
is that the the world humans
anthropologically tend to move and back
between extremes and you know we have
lived in a world of sort of capitalism
gone amok and what that really means
practically speaking is you know when we
were all looking over the brink of an
abyss 10 years ago the world
collectively decided that the only way
to save itself was through a you know
sort of perverted form of trickle-down
economics and so central bank's made
money 3 unfortunately the first part of
the the bet worked which is assets got
completely inflated and rich people were
able to buy things
but the second part never happened which
is that they bought things that were
unproductive assets right they weren't
buying factories and hiring people they
were buying pieces of art and airplanes
and depreciating assets and you know and
and things that didn't help so what's
happening after 40 years of lower rates
and after 10 years of essentially free
money we've woken up and so I think what
will happen is the pendulum will slowly
start to swing the other way and you're
seeing it I think populism is a reaction
to it you see it in Britain you see it
in America you see it in a lot of
countries all around the world without
judging it for a second just take it for
what it is which is a reaction to this
hyper capitalism asset inflation gone
amok you're seeing things like wealth
taxes being proposed and what these
things will do whether you like it or
not some form of this stuff will
essentially allow us to deliver because
it will force people who hold
unproductive assets to sell them you
know if I own art and I have to spend 6%
a year to keep that piece of art instead
what I will do is I will sell that piece
of art because now it's too much of a
tax for me to bear and I will put that
money into something productive that
yields me enough money to pay those
taxes every year and that will have a
profoundly better and more impactful way
of touching folks all the way in the
economic strata so what will happen is
all these debt-laden companies will very
quickly have to realize that this is
beginning and over a 10-year 10-year
cycle 15 year cycle you're gonna see a
lot more bankruptcies a lot more
delinquencies a lot more debt go bad and
the companies that win will be the
companies that focus on free cash flow
and profitability and just run their
business prudently hire people pay them
fairly pay them well in fact and just go
about their day lastly I'm very
conscious at the time we could chat for
hours I'm Joyce and what else do you
think is on your radar I mean we've
spoken a lot about because of the Virgin
Galactic thing but what else is kind of
on your radar and the second part of
that question is do you think this
industry is kind of
Kuragin complexity is something they how
did you speak about before do you think
this industry is courageous enough to
take on issues that are really complex
beyond Virgin Galactic oh yeah let me
let me let me give you maybe what seems
like a completely philosophical answer
that may make me sound crazy but I think
the I think the biggest problem facing
society is just the one that of
individual reckoning around people's own
happiness I really and I know that
sounds abstract but I just think that
we've gotten to a world that has
idolized everybody else's definition of
success and we're about to hit this wall
and that and you can already see young
people hit this brick wall levels of
depression levels of anxiety levels of
suicide and these things are compounding
at rates that are disturbing and frankly
you know has the adults in the room we
should be ashamed of ourselves and so I
think what people are longing for even
though they may not realize it and what
they're and they may not have the words
to ask for it our ways of reconnecting
with individuals that allow them to feel
their humanity and help them redefine
success in ways that are more balanced
for them and so in that I actually think
there's something really important about
things like travel because it exposes
you to other people you know in some
ways like and it's an aspirational
products it's inherently aspirational
I'm just saying I think it can be I I
think that it's much more basic than
that which is that it's about human
connection and I think it allows people
to bridge differences in unexpected ways
so you know social media has been
powerful in some really positive ways
let me give you a negative way it has
basically allowed people in California
to realize that they and people in
Mississippi are completely different
people or people in Washington State and
people in Louisiana are completely
different and when media was slower and
it wasn't real-time nobody interacted
with each other when media is in real
time and you know microsecond in
millisecond what happens is you very
quickly see how people are different and
instinctively you recoil and you reject
travel has this interesting property
where when you're physically in
versus virtually in touch you're
actually much more open receptive and
you see that by the people who travel
the world yeah and when you obviously
experiences you smell it you feel it
you're much more empathetic and open to
different viewpoints and different world
views and so it has an incredibly
important role to play in what I think
is the next great crisis so the next
great crisis is not a financial crisis
it's an emotional crisis and you know
I've been for better or for worse an
architect of building those when I was
at when I was at Facebook but I think
that that's the next great reckoning
that we have to deal with and you know
virgin is a way for me to help play my
part I think the idea that if people
could you know eventually see a world
where you can travel anywhere in the
world and under you know 90 minutes for
the same amount that it would cost you
to buy an economy class ticket I don't
know when that'll happen but imagine you
could do it you'd maybe read an article
about a place and you could be there
three hours later yeah I just think that
that's incredible
yeah the idea of that is just incredible
yeah and that people who had completely
specific views you could get them to a
place and actually see that their views
were right wrong or you know much more
in the middle you know and I think that
has a profound value to humanity okay a
very optimistic message I must say
that's great thank you so much for
talking to us tomorrow happen to you
Thank You Ven thank you
[Music]
you